#labels project,Status-Incomplete,Theme-Resourcemgt,Theme-Experimentation,Theme-CommsnColl,Theme-MgtnAdmin,Call-VRERI
=MEGStream=
_Streamlining the processing of brain research data_

NOTE TO PROJECT ON THIS PAGE: 
If you see a correction/addition that needs to be made in this page please place edits in the comments section at the bottom of this page and I will change, please do not email me. /FvT

==Project Summary==
The Aston Brain Centre is home to the Wellcome Trust Laboratory for Magnetoencephalographic (MEG) studies and a number of research groups each with the aim of visualising brain function on a
millisecond by millisecond time scale. These scans are not currently stored in a systematic way that enables them to be reused in new research projects or fully for clinical diagnosis. 

The project will:
 * Build taverna workflows to automate the process of creating and analysing MEG images. This will provide a standard means of processing the data, improving its provenance and reducing the time needed to train new researchers and collaborators.
 * Embedding ICT into the research process by extending the use of portable technology such as netbooks and the use of VDI within the physical labs.
 * Providing a standard means of interacting with the data to support teaching, access by NHS staff and promote reproducible research.
 * The workflows will be published to JISC's myexperiment.org VRE and other neuroimaging research groups will be encouraged to use and enhance them. The workflows will also make it
easier for other research groups in and beyond Aston to use the data in other research projects.
 * It is the intention to present these workflows and techniques in conferences and to publish them to the neuroimaging community to encourage re-use and continual improvement.

Please add: 
 * Twitter description (120 characters laymen description, e.g. how would you describe this to your neighbour and not bore them): Knowledge repositories search and visualisation tools
 * Questions this project answers (end user problems it solves): 
  *User Question (what itch does it scratch): 
  *Community Question (how does this change the way things were done): 

==Project Details==
 * Host Institution: Aston Brain Centre, Information Systems Aston
 * VRERI/Strands:  Theme-Resourcemgt / Theme-Experimentation / Theme-CommsnColl / Theme-MgtnAdmin 
 * Duration: 6 months
 * Start Date: Jan 2010
 * End Date: July 2010
 * Amount Awarded to Project: £47950.77

==Project Team==
 * Product Owner: Ian Holliday, i.e.holliday@aston.ac.uk, 0121 204 4064
 * Developer: TBC
 * Admin: TBC
 * Partners: TBC
 * Consultants: TBC

==Documentation==
 * Code Repository: TBC - Link 
 * Technical Documentation: TBC
 * End User Documentation: TBC 
 * Analytics Engine: TBC 
 * Project Website: TBC
 * XMPP Feed (twitter): n/a RSS Feed From Project Blog: TBC